The following is an excerpt from "Learning to Play 7 Wonders Duel Without Human Supervision",
a major inspiration for my own work for a model to play the game Wyrmspan.

Citation:
@misc{paolini2024learningplay7wonders,
      title={Learning to Play 7 Wonders Duel Without Human Supervision}, 
      author={Giovanni Paolini and Lorenzo Moreschini and Francesco Veneziano and Alessandro Iraci},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2406.00741},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.AI},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.00741}, 
}

Excerpt:
ZeusAI is an adaptation of the celebrated AlphaZero reinforcement learning algorithm [1], combining Monte Carlo Tree
Search (MCTS) with a Deep Neural Network that models state
values and policy. In this section, we give a technical overview
of ZeusAI. Some details are omitted for brevity, and we defer
a complete description to a future paper.

A. The Model
In 7 Wonders Duel, unlike Go and Chess, the state does
not have a chessboard-like geometry, making Convolutional
Neural Networks not well-suited. Instead, we use Transformer
Encoder models [2] of different sizes. Our final model has 12
layers and 12 attention heads; it maintains 768-dimensional
representations, and the feedforward layers have a hidden dimension of 3072. A state is represented as a set of components
(cards, wonders, progress tokens, etc.), each paired with their
positional information (e.g., a card can be in a specific location
of the age structure, in either player’s city, discarded, or used to
build a wonder). All components and positions have a learned
768-dimensional embedding, akin to words and positions in
Transformer-based language models. No explicit information
about the rules, and the costs and effects of game components,
is encoded; it is all learned through self-play. Additional tokens
encode other aspects of the state, such as the number of coins
and the status of the military track.
ZeusAI’s Transformer outputs a state value between −1 and
+1, representing the odds of the current player winning the
game, and a probability distribution over all legal actions (the
policy), with more promising actions having higher probabilities. The total number of trainable parameters is ∼92M.

B. Action Selection
To select an action in a given state, ZeusAI employs the
MCTS algorithm. Specifically, the procedure begins with a tree
consisting only of the root node, representing the current state.
During each simulation, the tree is traversed starting from the
root, until a new state is encountered and added; actions are
chosen in a way that balances exploration (prioritizing less
explored actions), and exploitation (favoring actions considered more promising by the model or that have previously led
to high-value outcomes). In some cases, applying an action
results in a state where a random event, such as revealing
one or more cards, must occur. We refer to these states as
afterstates. To reduce the branching factor of the search tree,
each afterstate is limited to having at most 11 child states; in
non-training games, this limit is gradually increased as the
number of visits to an afterstate increases. If a simulation
reaches an afterstate already at the limit, it continues randomly
with one of the existing child states. The limit of 11 is based
on the maximum number of child states possible when a single
card must be revealed.
When generating self-play games for training, we run
MCTS for up to 1k simulations; the action is selected randomly, weighted by the number of visits. In non-training
games, we run up to 5k simulations and deterministically
select the action with the highest number of visits.

C. Training
We initially generated 35k games using three simple rulebased policies: the first policy selects actions at random, with
a preference for not discarding; the second and third policies
attempt to build random green and red cards, which are required to achieve scientific and military victories respectively,
and otherwise behave as the first policy. We trained the value
head of our Transformer model on all states from these games,
assigning a target value based on the game’s outcome (+1 for
a win, −1 for a loss, and 0 for a draw).
Subsequent self-play games were generated with ZeusAI.
Every ∼3k games, the Transformer model was re-trained on
the states from the most recent ∼100k games. Specifically, the
policy head was trained to predict the visit distribution of the
legal actions at the MCTS root node. We generated a total of
∼420k self-play games for training, which would take 9 years
of real-time training for a human player on BGA.